7.1. string ¡ª Common string operations
The string module contains a number of useful constants and classes, as well as some deprecated legacy functions that are also available as methods on strings. In addition, Python¡¯s built-in string classes support the sequence type methods described in the Sequence Types ¡ª str, unicode, list, tuple, bytearray, buffer, xrange section, and also the string-specific methods described in the String Methods section. To output formatted strings use template strings or the % operator described in the String Formatting Operations section. Also, see the re module for string functions based on regular expressions.

See also

Latest version of the string module Python source code

7.1.1. String constants
The constants defined in this module are:

string.ascii_letters 
The concatenation of the ascii_lowercase and ascii_uppercase constants described below. This value is not locale-dependent.

string.ascii_lowercase 
The lowercase letters 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'. This value is not locale-dependent and will not change.

string.ascii_uppercase 
The uppercase letters 'ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'. This value is not locale-dependent and will not change.

string.digits 
The string '0123456789'.

string.hexdigits 
The string '0123456789abcdefABCDEF'.

string.letters 
The concatenation of the strings lowercase and uppercase described below. The specific value is locale-dependent, and will be updated when locale.setlocale() is called.

string.lowercase 
A string containing all the characters that are considered lowercase letters. On most systems this is the string 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'. The specific value is locale-dependent, and will be updated when locale.setlocale() is called.

string.octdigits 
The string '01234567'.

string.punctuation 
String of ASCII characters which are considered punctuation characters in the C locale.

string.printable 
String of characters which are considered printable. This is a combination of digits, letters, punctuation, and whitespace.

string.uppercase 
A string containing all the characters that are considered uppercase letters. On most systems this is the string 'ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'. The specific value is locale-dependent, and will be updated when locale.setlocale() is called.

string.whitespace 
A string containing all characters that are considered whitespace. On most systems this includes the characters space, tab, linefeed, return, formfeed, and vertical tab.
